CSTMI/README.md, before:

# Introduction to R Programming

R in commonly used in bioinformatics because of statistical computing capabilities and an extensive collection of packages developed by a large community of scientists.

This notebook will walk you through some of the basics of R programming to help you get started.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Installation of R and R Studio

Before diving into R programming you will want to have both R and RStudio (interactive development environment) installed. You can download them from the official website <https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/>.

> *Note: When installing R, it's wise to verify the version you choose, especially if you intend to utilize community-developed packages. For this introduction we will be using version 4.3.3.*

After opening R Studio you will want to create a new notebook and allow R Studio to install the packages needed. We will review the installation of packages later in this tutorial.

![Start a new notebook from template](figures/MarkdownOption.png){style="border:1px solid #000000; padding:3px; margin:2px" width="484"}

# Setting things up for this tutorial

For a more friendly format, as you walk through this notebook you can choose the visual mode.

![Choose visual for a more friendly view!](figures/VisualButton.png){style="border:1px solid #000000; padding:3px; margin:2px" width="228" height="93"}

You will also want to set this downloaded folder as your *working directory*. Click on **Session** in the top menu, choose **Set Working Directory**, choose **To Source File Location**.

Commit message:

revised instructions for setting up the tutorial

CSTMI/README.md, after:

# Introduction to R Programming

R in commonly used in bioinformatics because of statistical computing capabilities and an extensive collection of packages developed by a large community of scientists.

This notebook will walk you through some of the basics of R programming to help you get started.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Installation of R and R Studio

Before diving into R programming you will want to have both R and RStudio (interactive development environment) installed. You can download them from the official website <https://posit.co/download/rstudio-desktop/>.

> *Note: When installing R, it's wise to verify the version you choose, especially if you intend to utilize community-developed packages. For this introduction we will be using version 4.3.3.*

After opening R Studio you will want to create a new notebook and allow R Studio to install the packages needed. We will review the installation of packages later in this tutorial.

![Start a new notebook from template](figures/MarkdownOption.png)

# Setting things up for this tutorial

## 1. Downloading tutorial files and folders

Return to the [main folder](https://github.com/naultran/Tutorials_and_Workshops/tree/main). In the top right corner you will see a green button which says __<> code__. In that dropdown menu 
choose to download the zip folder then unzip it on your local computer.

Open the file called __Basics_of_R_programming.Rmd__ in your RStudio.

## 2. Making your R Studio more visually friendly

For a more friendly format, as you walk through this notebook you can choose the visual mode.

![Choose visual for a more friendly view!](figures/VisualButton.png)

## 3. Setting up R working directory
You will also want to set this downloaded folder as your *working directory*. Click on **Session** in the top menu, choose **Set Working Directory**, choose **To Source File Location**.
